docs/features/user_auth_system.md, before:

# User/Auth System

## **First Time Setup**

In order for the auth system to function properly, there are some environment variables that are needed. Note that this information is also included in the [/.env.example](/.env.example) file.

In /.env, you will need to set the following variables:
```bash
# Change this to a secure string
JWT_SECRET=secret
# Set the expiration delay for the secure cookie with the JWT token
# Delay is in millisecond e.g. 7 days is 1000*60*60*24*7
SESSION_EXPIRY=1000 * 60 * 60 * 24 * 7
DOMAIN_SERVER=http://localhost:3080
DOMAIN_CLIENT=http://localhost:3080
```

*Please Note: If you are wanting this to work in development mode, you will need to create a file called `.env.development` in the root directory and set `DOMAIN_CLIENT` to `http://localhost:3090` or whatever port  is provided by vite when runnning `npm run frontend-dev`*

Important: When you run the app for the first time, you need to create a new account by clicking on "Sign up" on the login page. The first account you make will be the admin account. The admin account doesn't have any special features right now, but it might be useful if you want to make an admin dashboard to manage other users later. 

⚠️ **__For the first time, you should use a local account (email and password) to sign up and log in.__**

---

## **OAuth2/Social Login**

## How to Set Up Google Authentication

To enable Google login, you must create an application in the [Google Cloud Console](https://cloud.google.com) and provide the client ID and client secret in the `/.env` file.

1. Go to "APIs and Services" in your Google Cloud account and click on "Credentials".
2. Click on "Configure consent screen" and select "External" as the user type.
3. Add "profile", "email" and "openid" as the scopes for your app. These are the first three checkboxes when you click on "Add or remove scopes".
4. Click on "Save and continue" and then "Back to dashboard".
5. Click on "Create Credentials" and then "OAuth client ID".
6. Select "Web application" as the application type and give it a name.
7. Add "http://localhost" "http://localhost:3080" and "http://localhost:3090" to the authorized JavaScript origins.
8. Add "http://localhost:3080/oauth/google/callback" to the authorized redirect URIs.
9. Click on "Create" and copy your client ID and client secret.
10. Paste them into your /.env file.
11. Enable the feature in the /.env file

---

## How to Set Up OpenID Authentication with Azure AD

1. Go to the Azure Portal and sign in with your account.
2. In the search box, type Azure Active Directory and click on it.
3. On the left menu, click on App registrations and then on New registration.
4. Give your app a name and select Web as the platform type.
5. In the Redirect URI field, enter http://localhost:3080/oauth/openid/callback and click on Register.
6. You will see an Overview page with some information about your app. Copy the Application (client) ID and the Directory (tenant) ID and save them somewhere.
7. On the left menu, click on Authentication and check the boxes for Access tokens and ID tokens under Implicit grant and hybrid flows.
8. On the left menu, click on Certificates & Secrets and then on New client secret. Give your secret a name and an expiration date and click on Add.
9. You will see a Value column with your secret. Copy it and save it somewhere. Don't share it with anyone!
10. Open the .env file in your project folder and add the following variables with the values you copied:

```
OPENID_CLIENT_ID=Your Application (client) ID
OPENID_CLIENT_SECRET=Your client secret
OPENID_ISSUER=https://login.microsoftonline.com/Your Directory (tenant ID)/v2.0/
OPENID_SESSION_SECRET=Any random string
OPENID_SCOPE=openid profile email
OPENID_CALLBACK_URL=/oauth/openid/callback
```
11. Save the .env file and you're done! You have successfully set up OpenID authentication with Azure AD for your app.

---

## **Email and Password Reset** 

Most of the code is in place for sending password reset emails, but is not yet feature-complete as I have not setup an email server to test it. Currently, submitting a password reset request will then display a link with the one-time reset token that can then be used to reset the password. Understanding that this is a considerable security hazard, email integration will be included in the next release.

## **Disable User Registration**

To disable or re-enable registration, open up the root `.env` file and set `ALLOW_REGISTRATION=true` or `ALLOW_REGISTRATION=false` depending on if you want registration open or closed.

### ⚠️***Warning***

If you previously implemented your own user system using the original scaffolding that was provided, you will no longer see conversations and presets by switching to the new user system. This is because of a design flaw in the scaffolding implementation that was problematic for the inclusion of social login.

### For user updating from an older version of the app:

When the first account is registered, the application will automatically migrate any conversations and presets that you created before the user system was implemented to that account. 
if you use login for the first time with a social login account (eg. Google, facebook, etc.), the conversations and presets that you created before the user system was implemented will NOT be migrated to that account.

Commit message:

GIthub Login (#578)
* Add files via upload

* Create linode-setup.md

* Create cloudflare-setup.md

* Update cloudflare-setup.md

* Delete 4-linode.png

* Delete 3-linode.png

* Add files via upload

* Add files via upload

* Update cloudflare-setup.md

* Update linode-setup.md

* Rename cloudflare-setup.md to cloudflare.md

* Rename linode-setup.md to linode.md

* Update mkdocs.yml

* Update cloudflare.md

* Update linode.md

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* Update linode.md

sentence in Italian

* v1

The frontend has been completed, along with the .env variables.

However, there is an issue of infinite loading thereafter.

* Fix email and remove deprecated GitHub passport

* Update user_auth_system.md

add How to Set Up a Github Authentication

* Update .env.example

Improved the comment above the GitHub client ID and secret.

* Update user_auth_system.md

* Update package.json

* Remove unnecessary passport GitHub package

* fixed conflicts

 fixed conflicts between Berry-13:main and danny-avila:main

in api/server/index.js 45:54

* Delete e -i HEAD~2

docs/features/user_auth_system.md, after:

# User/Auth System

## **First Time Setup**

In order for the auth system to function properly, there are some environment variables that are needed. Note that this information is also included in the [/.env.example](/.env.example) file.

In /.env, you will need to set the following variables:
```bash
# Change this to a secure string
JWT_SECRET=secret
# Set the expiration delay for the secure cookie with the JWT token
# Delay is in millisecond e.g. 7 days is 1000*60*60*24*7
SESSION_EXPIRY=1000 * 60 * 60 * 24 * 7
DOMAIN_SERVER=http://localhost:3080
DOMAIN_CLIENT=http://localhost:3080
```

*Please Note: If you are wanting this to work in development mode, you will need to create a file called `.env.development` in the root directory and set `DOMAIN_CLIENT` to `http://localhost:3090` or whatever port  is provided by vite when runnning `npm run frontend-dev`*

Important: When you run the app for the first time, you need to create a new account by clicking on "Sign up" on the login page. The first account you make will be the admin account. The admin account doesn't have any special features right now, but it might be useful if you want to make an admin dashboard to manage other users later. 

⚠️ **__For the first time, you should use a local account (email and password) to sign up and log in.__**

---

## **OAuth2/Social Login**

## How to Set Up Google Authentication

To enable Google login, you must create an application in the [Google Cloud Console](https://cloud.google.com) and provide the client ID and client secret in the `/.env` file.

1. Go to "APIs and Services" in your Google Cloud account and click on "Credentials".
2. Click on "Configure consent screen" and select "External" as the user type.
3. Add "profile", "email" and "openid" as the scopes for your app. These are the first three checkboxes when you click on "Add or remove scopes".
4. Click on "Save and continue" and then "Back to dashboard".
5. Click on "Create Credentials" and then "OAuth client ID".
6. Select "Web application" as the application type and give it a name.
7. Add "http://localhost" "http://localhost:3080" and "http://localhost:3090" to the authorized JavaScript origins.
8. Add "http://localhost:3080/oauth/google/callback" to the authorized redirect URIs.
9. Click on "Create" and copy your client ID and client secret.
10. Paste them into your /.env file.
11. Enable the feature in the /.env file

---

## How to Set Up OpenID Authentication with Azure AD

1. Go to the Azure Portal and sign in with your account.
2. In the search box, type Azure Active Directory and click on it.
3. On the left menu, click on App registrations and then on New registration.
4. Give your app a name and select Web as the platform type.
5. In the Redirect URI field, enter http://localhost:3080/oauth/openid/callback and click on Register.
6. You will see an Overview page with some information about your app. Copy the Application (client) ID and the Directory (tenant) ID and save them somewhere.
7. On the left menu, click on Authentication and check the boxes for Access tokens and ID tokens under Implicit grant and hybrid flows.
8. On the left menu, click on Certificates & Secrets and then on New client secret. Give your secret a name and an expiration date and click on Add.
9. You will see a Value column with your secret. Copy it and save it somewhere. Don't share it with anyone!
10. Open the .env file in your project folder and add the following variables with the values you copied:

```
OPENID_CLIENT_ID=Your Application (client) ID
OPENID_CLIENT_SECRET=Your client secret
OPENID_ISSUER=https://login.microsoftonline.com/Your Directory (tenant ID)/v2.0/
OPENID_SESSION_SECRET=Any random string
OPENID_SCOPE=openid profile email
OPENID_CALLBACK_URL=/oauth/openid/callback
```
11. Save the .env file and you're done! You have successfully set up OpenID authentication with Azure AD for your app.

---

## How to Set Up Github Authentication

1. Go to your [Github Developer settings](https://github.com/settings/apps)
2. Create a new Github app
3. Give it a GitHub App name and set in the Homepage URL your [DOMAIN_CLIENT](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/blob/main/.env.example#L219)    (example: http://localhost:3080)
4. Add a callback URL and set it as "[Your DOMAIN_CLIENT](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/blob/main/.env.example#L219)/oauth/github/callback" (example: http://localhost:3080/oauth/github/callback)
5. Remove the Active checkbox in the Webhook section
6. Save changes and generate a Client Secret
7. In the Permissions & events tab select, open the Account Permissions and set Email addresses to Read-only
8. Put the Client ID and Client Secret in the .env file
9. Save the .env file

---
## **Email and Password Reset** 

Most of the code is in place for sending password reset emails, but is not yet feature-complete as I have not setup an email server to test it. Currently, submitting a password reset request will then display a link with the one-time reset token that can then be used to reset the password. Understanding that this is a considerable security hazard, email integration will be included in the next release.

## **Disable User Registration**

To disable or re-enable registration, open up the root `.env` file and set `ALLOW_REGISTRATION=true` or `ALLOW_REGISTRATION=false` depending on if you want registration open or closed.

### ⚠️***Warning***

If you previously implemented your own user system using the original scaffolding that was provided, you will no longer see conversations and presets by switching to the new user system. This is because of a design flaw in the scaffolding implementation that was problematic for the inclusion of social login.

### For user updating from an older version of the app:

When the first account is registered, the application will automatically migrate any conversations and presets that you created before the user system was implemented to that account. 
if you use login for the first time with a social login account (eg. Google, facebook, etc.), the conversations and presets that you created before the user system was implemented will NOT be migrated to that account.
