docs/install/installation/linux_install.md, before:

---
title: 🐧 Linux
description: Linux Installation Guides
weight: 0
---
# Linux Installation Guide
## **Recommended:**

[![Watch the video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/w7VqivpdfZk/maxresdefault.jpg)](https://youtu.be/w7VqivpdfZk)
Click on the thumbnail to open the video☝️
---

In this video, you will learn how to install and run LibreChat, using Docker on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS.

#### Timestamps

- 0:00 - Intro
- 0:14 - Update the system
- 0:29 - Clone the repository
- 0:37 - Docker installation
- 1:03 - Enter in the folder
- 1:07 - Create the .env file
- 1:14 - Build using docker-compose
- 1:29 - Start LibreChat
- 1:43 - Test

#### Instructions

- Update the system: `sudo apt update`
- Clone LibreChat: `git clone https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat.git`
- Install Docker: `sudo apt install docker.io && apt install docker-compose -y`
- Enter the folder: `cd LibreChat`
- Create the .env file: `cp .env.example .env`
- Build the Docker image: `docker compose build`
- Start LibreChat: `docker compose up -d`

Note: If you run the command on the same computer and want to access it, navigate to `localhost:3080`. You should see a login page where you can create or sign in to your account. Then you can choose an AI model and start chatting.

- [Manage Your MongoDB Database (optional)](../../features/manage_your_database.md)
Safely access and manage your MongoDB database using Mongo Express

Have fun!

> Note: See the [Docker Compose Install Guide](./docker_compose_install.md) for more details 
- 👆 Docker Compose installation is recommended for most use cases. It's the easiest, simplest, and most reliable method to get started.

---

## **Manual Installation:**

## Prerequisites

Before installing LibreChat, make sure your machine has the following prerequisites installed:

- Git: To clone the repository.
- Node.js: To run the application.
- MongoDB: To store the chat history.

## Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat.git
```

## Extract the content in your desired location:

```bash
cd LibreChat
unzip LibreChat.zip -d /usr/local/
```

Note: The above command extracts the files to "/usr/local/LibreChat". If you want to install the files to a different location, modify the instructions accordingly.

## Enable the Conversation search feature: (optional)

- Download MeiliSearch latest release from: **[github.com/meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/releases)**
- Copy it to `/usr/local/LibreChat/`
- Rename the file to `meilisearch`
- Open a terminal and navigate to `/usr/local/LibreChat/`
- Generate a Master Key or use the one already provided in th `.env` file (less secure)
- Update the Master Key in the .env file (it must be the same everywhere) `MEILI_MASTER_KEY=` 
- Run the following command:

```bash
./meilisearch --master-key=YOUR_MASTER_KEY
```

Note: Replace `YOUR_MASTER_KEY` with the generated master key, which you saved earlier in the `.env` file.

## Install Node.js:

Open a terminal and run the following commands:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_lts.x | sudo -E bash -
sudo apt-get install -y nodejs
```

## [Create a MongoDB database](../configuration/mongodb.md) (Required)

## [Setup your AI Endpoints](../configuration/ai_setup.md) (Required)
- At least one AI endpoint should be setup for use.

## [User/Auth System](../configuration/user_auth_system.md) (Optional)
- How to set up the user/auth system and Google login.

## Run the project

### Using the command line (in the root directory)
Setup the app:

1. Run `npm ci`
2. Run `npm run frontend`

## Start the app:
1. Run `npm run backend`
2. Run `meilisearch --master-key put_your_meilesearch_Master_Key_here` (Only if SEARCH=TRUE)
3. Visit [http://localhost:3080](http://localhost:3080) (default port) & enjoy

### Using a shell script

- Create a shell script to automate the starting process
- Open a text editor
- Paste the following code in a new document
- Put your MeiliSearch master key instead of "your_master_key_goes_here"
- Save the file as "/home/user/LibreChat/LibreChat.sh"
- You can make a shortcut of this shell script and put it anywhere

``` bash title="LibreChat.sh"
#!/bin/bash
# the meilisearch executable needs to be at the root of the LibreChat directory

gnome-terminal --tab --title="MeiliSearch" --command="bash -c 'meilisearch --master-key your_master_key_goes_here'"
# ↑↑↑ meilisearch is the name of the meilisearch executable, put your own master key there

gnome-terminal --tab --title="LibreChat" --working-directory=/home/user/LibreChat/ --command="bash -c 'npm run backend'"
# this shell script goes at the root of the LibreChat directory (/home/user/LibreChat/)
```

## Update the app version

- Run `npm run update` from the project directory for a clean installation.

If you're having issues running this command, you can try running what the script does manually:

Prefix commands with `sudo` according to your environment permissions.

```bash
# Bash Terminal

# Step 1: Get the latest changes

# Fetch the latest changes from Github
git fetch origin
# Switch to the repo's main branch
git checkout main
# Pull the latest changes to the main branch from Github
git pull origin main

# Step 2: Delete all node_modules directories
# Define the list of directories we will delete
directories=(
    "."
    "./packages/data-provider"
    "./client"
    "./api"
)

# Loop over each directory and delete the node_modules folder if it exists
for dir in "${directories[@]}"; do
    nodeModulesPath="$dir/node_modules"
    if [ -d "$nodeModulesPath" ]; then
        echo "Deleting node_modules in $dir"
        rm -rf "$nodeModulesPath"
    fi
done

# Step 3: Clean the npm cache
npm cache clean --force

# Step 4: Install dependencies
npm ci

# Step 5: Build client-side (frontend) code
npm run frontend

# Start LibreChat
npm run backend
```

The above assumes that you're using the default terminal application on Linux and are executing the commands from the project directory. The commands are written in Bash, which is a common default shell for many Linux distributions. While some systems might use other shells like `zsh` or `fish`, these commands should be compatible with most of them.

---

>⚠️ Note: If you're having trouble, before creating a new issue, please search for similar ones on our [#issues thread on our discord](https://discord.librechat.ai) or our [troubleshooting discussion](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/discussions/categories/troubleshooting) on our Discussions page. If you don't find a relevant issue, feel free to create a new one and provide as much detail as possible.

Commit message:

⚠️ docs: Default Value Warnings & Docker Docs Update (#2343)
* feat(AppService): default secret value warnings

* docs: update docker/ubuntu related guides

docs/install/installation/linux_install.md, after:

---
title: 🐧 Linux
description: Linux Installation Guides
weight: 0
---
# Linux Installation Guide
## **Recommended:**

[![Watch the video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/w7VqivpdfZk/maxresdefault.jpg)](https://youtu.be/w7VqivpdfZk)
Click on the thumbnail to open the video☝️
---

In this video, you will learn how to install and run LibreChat, using Docker on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS.

#### Timestamps

- 0:00 - Intro
- 0:14 - Update the system
- 0:29 - Clone the repository
- 0:37 - Docker installation
- 1:03 - Enter in the folder
- 1:07 - Create the .env file
- 1:14 - Build using docker-compose
- 1:29 - Start LibreChat
- 1:43 - Test

#### Instructions

- Update the system: `sudo apt update`
- Clone LibreChat: `git clone https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat.git`
- Install Docker: `sudo apt install docker.io && apt install docker-compose -y`
- Enter the folder: `cd LibreChat`
- Create the .env file: `cp .env.example .env`
- Build the Docker image: `docker compose build`
- Start LibreChat: `docker compose up -d`

#### Notes

- As of Docker Compose v2, `docker-compose` is now `docker compose`
    - Your linux distribution may not have the latest version of Docker Compose, so you may need to use `docker-compose` instead of `docker compose`
    - You can also see our guide on installing the latest versions of Docker & Docker Compose here: [Docker Ubuntu Deployment Guide](../../deployment/docker_ubuntu_deploy.md#part-i-installing-docker-and-other-dependencies)
    - The guide is specific to Ubuntu but may be applicable to other Linux distributions as well

- If you run the command on the same computer and want to access it, navigate to `localhost:3080`. You should see a login page where you can create or sign in to your account. Then you can choose an AI model and start chatting.

- [Manage Your MongoDB Database (optional)](../../features/manage_your_database.md)
Safely access and manage your MongoDB database using Mongo Express

#### Have fun!

> Note: See the [Docker Compose Install Guide](./docker_compose_install.md) for more details 
- 👆 Docker Compose installation is recommended for most use cases. It's the easiest, simplest, and most reliable method to get started.

---

## **Manual Installation:**

## Prerequisites

Before installing LibreChat, make sure your machine has the following prerequisites installed:

- Git: To clone the repository.
- Node.js: To run the application.
- MongoDB: To store the chat history.

## Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat.git
```

## Extract the content in your desired location:

```bash
cd LibreChat
unzip LibreChat.zip -d /usr/local/
```

Note: The above command extracts the files to "/usr/local/LibreChat". If you want to install the files to a different location, modify the instructions accordingly.

## Enable the Conversation search feature: (optional)

- Download MeiliSearch latest release from: **[github.com/meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/releases)**
- Copy it to `/usr/local/LibreChat/`
- Rename the file to `meilisearch`
- Open a terminal and navigate to `/usr/local/LibreChat/`
- Generate a Master Key or use the one already provided in th `.env` file (less secure)
- Update the Master Key in the .env file (it must be the same everywhere) `MEILI_MASTER_KEY=` 
- Run the following command:

```bash
./meilisearch --master-key=YOUR_MASTER_KEY
```

Note: Replace `YOUR_MASTER_KEY` with the generated master key, which you saved earlier in the `.env` file.

## Install Node.js:

Open a terminal and run the following commands:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_lts.x | sudo -E bash -
sudo apt-get install -y nodejs
```

## [Create a MongoDB database](../configuration/mongodb.md) (Required)

## [Setup your AI Endpoints](../configuration/ai_setup.md) (Required)
- At least one AI endpoint should be setup for use.

## [User/Auth System](../configuration/user_auth_system.md) (Optional)
- How to set up the user/auth system and Google login.

## Run the project

### Using the command line (in the root directory)
Setup the app:

1. Run `npm ci`
2. Run `npm run frontend`

## Start the app:
1. Run `npm run backend`
2. Run `meilisearch --master-key put_your_meilesearch_Master_Key_here` (Only if SEARCH=TRUE)
3. Visit [http://localhost:3080](http://localhost:3080) (default port) & enjoy

### Using a shell script

- Create a shell script to automate the starting process
- Open a text editor
- Paste the following code in a new document
- Put your MeiliSearch master key instead of "your_master_key_goes_here"
- Save the file as "/home/user/LibreChat/LibreChat.sh"
- You can make a shortcut of this shell script and put it anywhere

``` bash title="LibreChat.sh"
#!/bin/bash
# the meilisearch executable needs to be at the root of the LibreChat directory

gnome-terminal --tab --title="MeiliSearch" --command="bash -c 'meilisearch --master-key your_master_key_goes_here'"
# ↑↑↑ meilisearch is the name of the meilisearch executable, put your own master key there

gnome-terminal --tab --title="LibreChat" --working-directory=/home/user/LibreChat/ --command="bash -c 'npm run backend'"
# this shell script goes at the root of the LibreChat directory (/home/user/LibreChat/)
```

## Update the app version

- Run `npm run update` from the project directory for a clean installation.

If you're having issues running this command, you can try running what the script does manually:

Prefix commands with `sudo` according to your environment permissions.

```bash
# Bash Terminal

# Step 1: Get the latest changes

# Fetch the latest changes from Github
git fetch origin
# Switch to the repo's main branch
git checkout main
# Pull the latest changes to the main branch from Github
git pull origin main

# Step 2: Delete all node_modules directories
# Define the list of directories we will delete
directories=(
    "."
    "./packages/data-provider"
    "./client"
    "./api"
)

# Loop over each directory and delete the node_modules folder if it exists
for dir in "${directories[@]}"; do
    nodeModulesPath="$dir/node_modules"
    if [ -d "$nodeModulesPath" ]; then
        echo "Deleting node_modules in $dir"
        rm -rf "$nodeModulesPath"
    fi
done

# Step 3: Clean the npm cache
npm cache clean --force

# Step 4: Install dependencies
npm ci

# Step 5: Build client-side (frontend) code
npm run frontend

# Start LibreChat
npm run backend
```

The above assumes that you're using the default terminal application on Linux and are executing the commands from the project directory. The commands are written in Bash, which is a common default shell for many Linux distributions. While some systems might use other shells like `zsh` or `fish`, these commands should be compatible with most of them.

---

>⚠️ Note: If you're having trouble, before creating a new issue, please search for similar ones on our [#issues thread on our discord](https://discord.librechat.ai) or our [troubleshooting discussion](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/discussions/categories/troubleshooting) on our Discussions page. If you don't find a relevant issue, feel free to create a new one and provide as much detail as possible.
