docs/deployment/linode.md, before:


[<img src="../assets/linode-logo.jpg" width="250">](https://www.linode.com/)

# Linode (⚠️Payment required)

**Create a Linode Account and a Linode Server**
- Go to the Linode website (https://www.linode.com/) and click on the "Sign Up" or "Get Started" button.
- Follow the instructions to create a new account by providing your personal details and payment information.
- Once your account is created, you will have access to the Linode Cloud Manager.
- Click on the "Create" button to create a new Linode server.
- Choose a location for your server and select the desired server plan.
- Configure the server settings such as the server's label, root password, and SSH key. If you don't know which image to use, select 🐧💻 Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
- Click on the 'Create' button to provision the Linode server (wait about 5 minutes after the server is on, because the server is not actually powered on yet)

**Install Docker:**
- Connect to your Linode server via SSH using a terminal or SSH client.
- Run the following commands to install Docker and Docker-compose:
  
  ```
  sudo apt update
  sudo apt install docker.io && apt install docker-compose
  ```
## [Install LibreChat](../install/docker_install.md)

## Install and Setup NGINX Proxy Manager:

if you want, you can use NGINX, Apache, or any other proxy manager.

- create a folder 
  
  ```
  mkdir ngnix-proxy-manager
  cd ngnix-proxy-manager
  ```

- Create a file named `docker-compose.yml` by running `nano docker-compose.yml`.

- Add this code and save it with `Ctrl+X`, `Y`, and `Enter`:

  ```
  version: '3.8'
  services:
    app:
      image: 'jc21/nginx-proxy-manager:latest'
      restart: unless-stopped
      ports:
        - '80:80'
        - '81:81'
        - '443:443'
      volumes:
        - ./data:/data
        - ./letsencrypt:/etc/letsencrypt
  ```

- **Run**  `docker-compose up -d`  to start NGINX Proxy Manager

- Login to NGINX Proxy Manager and change the username and password.

The default login link is at `your_linode_ip:81`.

Default Admin User:

 ```
Email:    admin@example.com
Password: changeme
 ```

- Login to NGINX Proxy Manager.
- Click on "Proxy Host" and add a proxy host.

![248540414-0dbbfdbb-063e-4fa5-bb1d-811064cc4bad](../assets/1-linode.png)

- If you want, you can add the Let's Encrypt SSL certificate.

![248540572-6d0220e2-2506-4b40-8974-a5014df646d6](../assets/2-linode.png)

Commit message:

Docs: updates & enhancements for MKDocs  (#555)
* Update documents for mkdocs compatibility

* documents update

* documents update

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

add link to "https://docs.librechat.ai" on the logo

* document updates

* docs - badge updates

* docs - badge updates

* docs - badge updates

* Update docker_install.md

* Update .env.example

update default MONGO_URI to port 27018 so local install can communicate with the docker db

* Update windows_install.md

fix typo

docs/deployment/linode.md, after:


[<img src="../assets/docs/deployment/linode-logo.jpg" width="250">](https://www.linode.com/)

# Linode 

⚠️**Note: Payment is required**

## Create a Linode Account and a Linode Server
- Go to the Linode website (https://www.linode.com/) and click on the "Sign Up" or "Get Started" button.
- Follow the instructions to create a new account by providing your personal details and payment information.
- Once your account is created, you will have access to the Linode Cloud Manager.
- Click on the "Create" button to create a new Linode server.
- Choose a location for your server and select the desired server plan.
- Configure the server settings such as the server's label, root password, and SSH key. If you don't know which image to use, select 🐧💻 Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
- Click on the 'Create' button to provision the Linode server (wait about 5 minutes after the server is on, because the server is not actually powered on yet)

## Install Docker:
- Connect to your Linode server via SSH using a terminal or SSH client.
- Run the following commands to install Docker and Docker-compose:
  
  ```
  sudo apt update
  sudo apt install docker.io && apt install docker-compose
  ```
## [Install LibreChat](../install/docker_install.md)

## Install and Setup NGINX Proxy Manager:

if you want, you can use NGINX, Apache, or any other proxy manager.

- create a folder 
  
  ```
  mkdir ngnix-proxy-manager
  cd ngnix-proxy-manager
  ```

- Create a file named `docker-compose.yml` by running `nano docker-compose.yml`.

- Add this code and save it with `Ctrl+X`, `Y`, and `Enter`:

  ```
  version: '3.8'
  services:
    app:
      image: 'jc21/nginx-proxy-manager:latest'
      restart: unless-stopped
      ports:
        - '80:80'
        - '81:81'
        - '443:443'
      volumes:
        - ./data:/data
        - ./letsencrypt:/etc/letsencrypt
  ```

### Start NGINX Proxy Manager
 
 - By executing: `docker-compose up -d`
  
### Login to NGINX Proxy Manager
  - **Important: You need to update the default credentials**

  - The default login link is at `your_linode_ip:81`.

  - Default Admin User:

 ```
Email:    admin@example.com
Password: changeme
 ```

### Login to NGINX Proxy Manager.
  - Click on "Proxy Host" and add a proxy host.

![248540414-0dbbfdbb-063e-4fa5-bb1d-811064cc4bad](../assets/docs/deployment/linode-1.png)

- If you want, you can add the `Let's Encrypt SSL` certificate.

![248540572-6d0220e2-2506-4b40-8974-a5014df646d6](../assets/docs/deployment/linode-2.png)

---

### Note: If you're still having trouble, before creating a new issue, please search for similar ones on our [#issues thread on our discord](https://discord.gg/weqZFtD9C4) or our [troubleshooting discussion](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/discussions/categories/troubleshooting) on our Discussions page. If you don't find a relevant issue, feel free to create a new one and provide as much detail as possible.
