documents/install/windows_install.md, before:

﻿# Windows Install

### Recommended:
### **[Automated Installer (Windows)](https://github.com/fuegovic/chatgpt-clone-local-installer)**
(Includes a Startup and Update Utility)
##


### Install the prerequisites on your machine

  - **Download chatgpt-clone**
  - 
    - Download the latest release here: https://github.com/danny-avila/chatgpt-clone/releases/
    - Or by clicking on the green code button in the top of the page and selecting "Download ZIP"
    - Or (Recommended if you have Git installed) pull the latest release from the main branch
    - If you downloaded a zip file, extract the content in "C:/chatgpt-clone/" 
    - **IMPORTANT : If you install the files somewhere else modify the instructions accordingly**
  
  - ** **Enable the Conversation search feature:**** (optional)
		
    - Download MeiliSearch latest release from : https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/releases
    - Copy it to "C:/chatgpt-clone/"
    - Rename the file to "meilisearch.exe"
    - Open it by double clicking on it
    - Copy the generated Master Key and save it somewhere (You will need it later)

  - **Download and Install Node.js**
    
    - Navigate to https://nodejs.org/en/download and to download the latest Node.js version for your OS (The Node.js installer includes the NPM package manager.)
    
  - **Create a MongoDB database**
    
    - Navigate to https://www.mongodb.com/ and Sign In or Create an account
    - Create a new project
    - Build a Database using the free plan and name the cluster (example: chatgpt-clone)
    - Use the "Username and Password" method for authentication
    - Add your current IP to the access list
    - Then in the Database Deployment tab click on Connect
    - In "Choose a connection method" select "Connect your application"
    - Driver = Node.js / Version = 4.1 or later
    - Copy the connection string and save it somewhere(you will need it later)
    
     
  - **Get your OpenAI API key** 
	  - here: https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys and save it somewhere safe (you will need it later)

  - **Get your Bing Access Token**
    - Using MS Edge, navigate to bing.com
    - Make sure you are logged in
    - Open the DevTools by pressing F12 on your keyboard
    - Click on the tab "Application" (On the left of the DevTools)
    - Expand the "Cookies" (Under "Storage")
    - You need to copy the value of the "\_U" cookie, save it somewhere, you will need it later

- **Create the ".env" File** 
You will need all your credentials, (API keys, access tokens, and Mongo Connection String, MeileSearch Master Key)
  - Open "C:/chatgpt-clone/api/.env.example" in a text editor
  - At this line **MONGO_URI="mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017/chatgpt-clone"**
    Replace mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017/chatgpt-clone with the MondoDB connection string you saved earlier, **remove "&w=majority" at the end**
    - It should look something like this: "MONGO_URI="mongodb+srv://username:password@chatgpt-clone.lfbcwz3.mongodb.net/?retryWrites=true"
  - At this line **OPENAI_KEY=** you need to add your openai API key
  - Add your Bing token to this line **BINGAI_TOKEN=** (needed for BingChat & Sydney)
  - If you want to enable Search, **SEARCH=TRUE** if you do not want to enable search **SEARCH=FALSE**
  - Add your previously saved MeiliSearch Master key to this line **MEILI_MASTER_KEY=** (the key is needed if search is enabled even on local install or you may encounter errors)
  - Save the file as **"C:/chatgpt-clone/api/.env"**

### Run the app

### Using the command line (in the root directory)
To setup the app:
1. Run `npm ci`
2. Run `npm run frontend`

To use the app:
1. Run `npm run backend`
2. Run `meilisearch --master-key put_your_meilesearch_Master_Key_here` (Only if SEARCH=TRUE)
3. Visit http://localhost:3080 (default port) & enjoy

#### Using a batch file

- **Make a batch file to automate the starting process**
  - Open a text editor
  - Paste the following code in a new document
  - Put your MeiliSearch master key instead of "your_master_key_goes_here"
  - Save the file as "C:/chatgpt-clone/chatgpt-clone.bat"
  - you can make a shortcut of this batch file and put it anywhere

```
REM the meilisearch executable needs to be at the root of the chatgpt-clone directory

start "MeiliSearch" cmd /k "meilisearch --master-key your_master_key_goes_here

REM ↑↑↑ meilisearch is the name of the meilisearch executable, put your own master key there

start "ChatGPT-Clone" cmd /k "npm run backend"

REM this batch file goes at the root of the chatgpt-clone directory (C:/chatgpt-clone/)
```

### Update the app version

If you update the chatgpt-clone project files, mannually redo the `npm ci` and `npm run frontend` steps

##

## [Go Back to ReadMe](../../README.md)

Commit message:

docs : update the documentation (#345)
* Add files via upload

* Delete documents/report_templates directory

* Update PR-TEMPLATE.md

* Update README.md

removed templates from TOC

* Update SECURITY.md

- update to follow documentation guidelines
- update discord link to point to issues

* Update SECURITY.md

* Update README.md

add security to TOC

* Delete pull_request_template.md

moved to .github

* Rename PR-TEMPLATE.md to PULL-REQUEST.md

* Update mac_install.md

clean up and update

* Update windows_install.md

fix formating and change update instructions

* Update windows_install.md

add docker recommendation

* Update windows_install.md

* Update mac_install.md

documents/install/windows_install.md, after:

﻿# Windows Install

### Recommended:
### **[Docker](docker.md)**
or
### **[Automated Installer (Windows)](https://github.com/fuegovic/chatgpt-clone-local-installer)**
(Includes a Startup and Update Utility)
##

## Manual Installation
### Install the prerequisites on your machine

  - **Download chatgpt-clone**
   
    - Download the latest release here: https://github.com/danny-avila/chatgpt-clone/releases/
    - Or by clicking on the green code button in the top of the page and selecting "Download ZIP"
    - Or (Recommended if you have Git installed) pull the latest release from the main branch
    - If you downloaded a zip file, extract the content in "C:/chatgpt-clone/" 
    - **IMPORTANT : If you install the files somewhere else modify the instructions accordingly**
  
  - **Enable the Conversation search feature:** (optional)
		
    - Download MeiliSearch latest release from : https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/releases
    - Copy it to "C:/chatgpt-clone/"
    - Rename the file to "meilisearch.exe"
    - Open it by double clicking on it
    - Copy the generated Master Key and save it somewhere (You will need it later)

  - **Download and Install Node.js**
    
    - Navigate to https://nodejs.org/en/download and to download the latest Node.js version for your OS (The Node.js installer includes the NPM package manager.)
    
  - **Create a MongoDB database**
    
    - Navigate to https://www.mongodb.com/ and Sign In or Create an account
    - Create a new project
    - Build a Database using the free plan and name the cluster (example: chatgpt-clone)
    - Use the "Username and Password" method for authentication
    - Add your current IP to the access list
    - Then in the Database Deployment tab click on Connect
    - In "Choose a connection method" select "Connect your application"
    - Driver = Node.js / Version = 4.1 or later
    - Copy the connection string and save it somewhere(you will need it later)
    
     
  - **Get your OpenAI API key** 
	  - here: https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys and save it somewhere safe (you will need it later)

  - **Get your Bing Access Token**
    - Using MS Edge, navigate to bing.com
    - Make sure you are logged in
    - Open the DevTools by pressing F12 on your keyboard
    - Click on the tab "Application" (On the left of the DevTools)
    - Expand the "Cookies" (Under "Storage")
    - You need to copy the value of the "\_U" cookie, save it somewhere, you will need it later

- **Create the ".env" File** 
You will need all your credentials, (API keys, access tokens, and Mongo Connection String, MeileSearch Master Key)
  - Open "C:/chatgpt-clone/api/.env.example" in a text editor
  - At this line **MONGO_URI="mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017/chatgpt-clone"**
    Replace mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017/chatgpt-clone with the MondoDB connection string you saved earlier, **remove "&w=majority" at the end**
    - It should look something like this: "MONGO_URI="mongodb+srv://username:password@chatgpt-clone.lfbcwz3.mongodb.net/?retryWrites=true"
  - At this line **OPENAI_KEY=** you need to add your openai API key
  - Add your Bing token to this line **BINGAI_TOKEN=** (needed for BingChat & Sydney)
  - If you want to enable Search, **SEARCH=TRUE** if you do not want to enable search **SEARCH=FALSE**
  - Add your previously saved MeiliSearch Master key to this line **MEILI_MASTER_KEY=** (the key is needed if search is enabled even on local install or you may encounter errors)
  - Save the file as **"C:/chatgpt-clone/api/.env"**

### Run the app

### Using the command line (in the root directory)
To setup the app:
1. Run `npm ci`
2. Run `npm run frontend`

To use the app:
1. Run `npm run backend`
2. Run `meilisearch --master-key put_your_meilesearch_Master_Key_here` (Only if SEARCH=TRUE)
3. Visit http://localhost:3080 (default port) & enjoy

#### Using a batch file

- **Make a batch file to automate the starting process**
  - Open a text editor
  - Paste the following code in a new document
  - The meilisearch executable needs to be at the root of the chatgpt-clone directory
  - Put your MeiliSearch master key instead of "your_master_key_goes_here"
  - Save the file as "C:/chatgpt-clone/chatgpt-clone.bat"
  - you can make a shortcut of this batch file and put it anywhere

```
start "MeiliSearch" cmd /k "meilisearch --master-key your_master_key_goes_here

start "ChatGPT-Clone" cmd /k "npm run backend"

REM this batch file goes at the root of the chatgpt-clone directory (C:/chatgpt-clone/)
```

### **Update**
- run `git pull` from the root dir
- Run npm ci from root directory `npm ci`
- Build the client by running `npm run frontend`


##

## [Go Back to ReadMe](../../README.md)
