docs/install/docker_install.md, before:

# Docker Installation Guide

Docker installation is recommended for most use cases. It's the easiest, simplest, and most reliable method to get started.

See the video guide for [Windows](windows_install.md#recommended) or [Ubuntu 22.04 LTS](linux_install.md#recommended)
## Installation and Configuration

### Preparation
Start by cloning the repository or downloading it to your desired location:

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat.git
```

### Docker Installation
Install Docker on your system. [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) is recommended for managing your Docker containers.

### LibreChat Configuration
Before running LibreChat with Docker, you need to configure some settings:

- Edit the credentials you see in `docker-compose.yml` under the API service as needed.
   - See my notes below for specific instructions on some of the configuration
- Provide all necessary credentials in the `.env` file before the next step.
   - Docker will read this env file. See the `.env.example` file for reference.

#### [API Keys and Tokens Setup](apis_and_tokens.md) (Required)
You must set up at least one of these tokens or APIs to run the app.

#### [User Authentication System Setup](../install/user_auth_system.md) (Optional)
How to set up the user/auth system and Google login.

### Running LibreChat
Once you have completed all the setup, you can start the LibreChat application by running the command `docker-compose up` in your terminal. After running this command, you can access the LibreChat application at `http://localhost:3080`.

**Note:** MongoDB does not support older ARM CPUs like those found in Raspberry Pis. However, you can make it work by setting MongoDB’s version to mongo:4.4.18 in docker-compose.yml, the most recent version compatible with

That's it! If you need more detailed information on configuring your compose file, see my notes below.

## Updating LibreChat
To update LibreChat. enter these commands one after the other from the root dir:
- git pull
- docker-compose build
- docker-compose up

## Advanced Settings

### Config notes for docker-compose.yml file

- Any environment variables set in your compose file will override variables with the same name in your .env file. Note that the following variables are necessary to include in the compose file so they work in the docker environment, so they are included for you.
```yaml
    env_file:
      - .env
    environment:
      - HOST=0.0.0.0
      - MONGO_URI=mongodb://mongodb:27017/LibreChat
# ...
      - MEILI_HOST=http://meilisearch:7700
      - MEILI_HTTP_ADDR=meilisearch:7700
# ...
    env_file:
      - .env
    environment:
      - MEILI_HOST=http://meilisearch:7700
      - MEILI_HTTP_ADDR=meilisearch:7700
 ```
- If you'd like to change the app title, edit the following lines (the ones in your .env file are not read during building)
```yaml
      args:
        APP_TITLE: LibreChat # default, change to your desired app name
```

- If for some reason you're not able to build the app image, you can pull the latest image from **Dockerhub**.
- Comment out the following lines (CTRL+/ on most IDEs, or put a `#` in front each line)


```yaml
    image: node                # Comment this & uncomment below to build from docker hub image
    build:
      context: .
      target: node
      args:
        APP_TITLE: LibreChat # default, change to your desired app name
```

- Comment this line in (remove the `#` key)


```yaml
     # image: ghcr.io/danny-avila/librechat:latest # Uncomment this & comment above to build from docker hub image
```
- **Note:** The latest Dockerhub image is only updated with new release tags, so it may not have the latest changes to the main branch
- You also can't edit the title or toggle google login off as shown above, as these variables are set during build time.
- If you are running APIs in other docker containers that you need access to, you will need to uncomment the following lines

```yaml
    # extra_hosts: # if you are running APIs on docker you need access to, you will need to uncomment this line and next
    # - "host.docker.internal:host-gateway"
```

  - Usually, these are reverse proxies, which you can set as shown below under `environment:`


```yaml
      environment:
      - HOST=0.0.0.0
      - MONGO_URI=mongodb://mongodb:27017/LibreChat
      - CHATGPT_REVERSE_PROXY=http://host.docker.internal:8080/api/conversation # if you are hosting your own chatgpt reverse proxy with docker
      - OPENAI_REVERSE_PROXY=http://host.docker.internal:8070/v1/chat/completions # if you are hosting your own chatgpt reverse proxy with docker
```

### **[LibreChat on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/chatgptclone/app/tags)**

### **[Create a MongoDB database](mongodb.md)** (Not required if you'd like to use the local database installed by Docker)

---

### Note: If you're still having trouble, before creating a new issue, please search for similar ones on our [#issues thread on our discord](https://discord.gg/weqZFtD9C4) or our [troubleshooting discussion](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/discussions/categories/troubleshooting) on our Discussions page. If you don't find a relevant issue, feel free to create a new one and provide as much detail as possible.

Commit message:

docs: general update (#781)
* Update windows_install.md

* Update linux_install.md

* Update mac_install.md

* Update docker_install.md

* Update linux_install.md

* Update windows_install.md

* Update README.md

* Update breaking_changes.md

* Update breaking_changes.md

docs/install/docker_install.md, after:

# Docker Installation Guide

Docker installation is recommended for most use cases. It's the easiest, simplest, and most reliable method to get started.

See the video guide for [Windows](windows_install.md#recommended) or [Ubuntu 22.04 LTS](linux_install.md#recommended)
## Installation and Configuration

### Preparation
Start by cloning the repository or downloading it to your desired location:

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat.git
```

### Docker Installation
Install Docker on your system. [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) is recommended for managing your Docker containers.

### LibreChat Configuration
Before running LibreChat with Docker, you need to configure some settings:

- Edit the credentials you see in `docker-compose.yml` under the API service as needed.
   - See my notes below for specific instructions on some of the configuration
- Provide all necessary credentials in the `.env` file before the next step.
   - Docker will read this env file. See the `.env.example` file for reference.

#### [API Keys and Tokens Setup](apis_and_tokens.md) (Required)
You must set up at least one of these tokens or APIs to run the app.

#### [User Authentication System Setup](../install/user_auth_system.md) (Optional)
How to set up the user/auth system and Google login.

### Running LibreChat
Once you have completed all the setup, you can start the LibreChat application by running the command `docker-compose up` in your terminal. After running this command, you can access the LibreChat application at `http://localhost:3080`.

**Note:** MongoDB does not support older ARM CPUs like those found in Raspberry Pis. However, you can make it work by setting MongoDB’s version to mongo:4.4.18 in docker-compose.yml, the most recent version compatible with

That's it! If you need more detailed information on configuring your compose file, see my notes below.

## Updating LibreChat
- Run `npm run update` from the project directory for a clean installation.

## Advanced Settings

### Config notes for docker-compose.yml file

- Any environment variables set in your compose file will override variables with the same name in your .env file. Note that the following variables are necessary to include in the compose file so they work in the docker environment, so they are included for you.
```yaml
    env_file:
      - .env
    environment:
      - HOST=0.0.0.0
      - MONGO_URI=mongodb://mongodb:27017/LibreChat
# ...
      - MEILI_HOST=http://meilisearch:7700
      - MEILI_HTTP_ADDR=meilisearch:7700
# ...
    env_file:
      - .env
    environment:
      - MEILI_HOST=http://meilisearch:7700
      - MEILI_HTTP_ADDR=meilisearch:7700
 ```
- If you'd like to change the app title, edit the following lines (the ones in your .env file are not read during building)
```yaml
      args:
        APP_TITLE: LibreChat # default, change to your desired app name
```

- If for some reason you're not able to build the app image, you can pull the latest image from **Dockerhub**.
- Comment out the following lines (CTRL+/ on most IDEs, or put a `#` in front each line)


```yaml
    image: node                # Comment this & uncomment below to build from docker hub image
    build:
      context: .
      target: node
      args:
        APP_TITLE: LibreChat # default, change to your desired app name
```

- Comment this line in (remove the `#` key)


```yaml
     # image: ghcr.io/danny-avila/librechat:latest # Uncomment this & comment above to build from docker hub image
```
- **Note:** The latest Dockerhub image is only updated with new release tags, so it may not have the latest changes to the main branch
- You also can't edit the title or toggle google login off as shown above, as these variables are set during build time.
- If you are running APIs in other docker containers that you need access to, you will need to uncomment the following lines

```yaml
    # extra_hosts: # if you are running APIs on docker you need access to, you will need to uncomment this line and next
    # - "host.docker.internal:host-gateway"
```

  - Usually, these are reverse proxies, which you can set as shown below under `environment:`


```yaml
      environment:
      - HOST=0.0.0.0
      - MONGO_URI=mongodb://mongodb:27017/LibreChat
      - CHATGPT_REVERSE_PROXY=http://host.docker.internal:8080/api/conversation # if you are hosting your own chatgpt reverse proxy with docker
      - OPENAI_REVERSE_PROXY=http://host.docker.internal:8070/v1/chat/completions # if you are hosting your own chatgpt reverse proxy with docker
```

### **[LibreChat on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/chatgptclone/app/tags)**

### **[Create a MongoDB database](mongodb.md)** (Not required if you'd like to use the local database installed by Docker)

---

### Note: If you're still having trouble, before creating a new issue, please search for similar ones on our [#issues thread on our discord](https://discord.gg/weqZFtD9C4) or our [troubleshooting discussion](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/discussions/categories/troubleshooting) on our Discussions page. If you don't find a relevant issue, feel free to create a new one and provide as much detail as possible.
