docs/dev/README.md, before:

﻿# Dev
This directory contains files used for developer work

### Dockerfile-app: 
- used to build the DockerHub image
### eslintrc-stripped.js:
- alternate linting rules, used in development
### meilisearch.yml: 
- Dockerfile for building meilisearch image independently from project
### single-compose.yml: 
- Dockerfile for building app image without meilisearch and mongodb services
  - This is useful for deploying on Google, Azure, etc., as a single, leaner container.
- From root dir of the project, run `docker-compose -f ./docs/dev/single-compose.yml up --build`
  - When you don't need to build, run `docker-compose -f ./docs/dev/single-compose.yml up`
- This requires you use a MongoDB Atlas connection string for the `MONGO_URI` env var
  - A URI string to a mongodb service accessible to your container is also possible.
  - Remote Meilisearch may also be possible in the same manner, but is not tested.
### deploy-compose.yml: 
- Similar to above, but with basic configuration for deployment to a cloud provider where multi-container compose works
  - Tested and working on a $6 droplet on DigitalOcean, just by visiting the http://server-ip/9000.
  - Not a scalable solution, but ideal for quickly hosting on a remote linux server.
  - You should adjust `server_name localhost;` to match your domain name, replacing localhost, as needed.
- From root dir of the project, run `docker-compose -f ./docs/dev/deploy-compose.yml up --build`
  - When you don't need to build, run `docker-compose -f ./docs/dev/deploy-compose.yml up`
- Unlike the single-compose file, this containerizes both MongoDB and Meilisearch, as they are already setup for you.

Commit message:

🧹📚 docs: refactor and clean up  (#1392)
* 📑 update mkdocs

* rename docker override file and add to gitignore

* update .env.example - GOOGLE_MODELS

* update index.md

* doc refactor: split installation and configuration in two sub-folders

* doc update: installation guides

* doc update: configuration guides

* doc: new docker override guide

* doc: new beginner's guide for contributions - Thanks @Berry-13

* doc: update documentation_guidelines.md

* doc: update testing.md

* doc: update deployment guides

* doc: update /dev readme

* doc: update general_info

* doc: add 0 value to doc weight

* doc: add index.md to every doc folders

* doc: add weight to index.md and move openrouter from free_ai_apis.md to ai_setup.md

* doc: update toc so they display properly on the right had side in mkdocs

* doc: update pandoranext.md

* doc: index logging_system.md

* doc: update readme.md

* doc: update litellm.md

* doc: update ./dev/readme.md

* doc:🔖 new presets.md

* doc: minor corrections

* doc update: user_auth_system.md and presets.md, doc feat: add mermaid support to mkdocs

* doc update: add screenshots to presets.md

* doc update: add screenshots to - OpenID with AWS Cognito

* doc update: BingAI cookie instruction

* doc update: discord auth

* doc update: facebook auth

* doc: corrections to user_auth_system.md

* doc update: github auth

* doc update: google auth

* doc update: auth clean up

* doc organization: installation

* doc organization: configuration

* doc organization: features+plugins & update:plugins screenshots

* doc organization: deploymend + general_info  & update: tech_stack.md

* doc organization: contributions

* doc: minor fixes

* doc: minor fixes

docs/dev/README.md, after:

﻿---
title: Dev Resources
weight: 6
---

# Dev Resources
Please consult: [Contributing to LibreChat](../contributions/index.md) for more information on the subject. 

This directory: [./docs/dev](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/tree/main/docs/dev), contains files used for developer work.

#### `Dockerfile-app` 
  - used to build the DockerHub image

#### `eslintrc-stripped.js`
- alternate linting rules, used in development

#### `meilisearch.yml`
- Dockerfile for building meilisearch image independently from project

#### `single-compose.yml`
- Dockerfile for building app image without meilisearch and mongodb services
  - This is useful for deploying on Google, Azure, etc., as a single, leaner container.
- From root dir of the project, run `docker-compose -f ./docs/dev/single-compose.yml up --build`
  - When you don't need to build, run `docker-compose -f ./docs/dev/single-compose.yml up`
- This requires you use a MongoDB Atlas connection string for the `MONGO_URI` env var
  - A URI string to a mongodb service accessible to your container is also possible.
  - Remote Meilisearch may also be possible in the same manner, but is not tested.

#### `deploy-compose.yml` 
- Similar to above, but with basic configuration for deployment to a cloud provider where multi-container compose works
  - Tested and working on a $6 droplet on DigitalOcean, just by visiting the http://server-ip/9000.
  - Not a scalable solution, but ideal for quickly hosting on a remote linux server.
  - You should adjust `server_name localhost;` to match your domain name, replacing localhost, as needed.
- From root dir of the project, run `docker-compose -f ./docs/dev/deploy-compose.yml up --build`
  - When you don't need to build, run `docker-compose -f ./docs/dev/deploy-compose.yml up`
- Unlike the single-compose file, this containerizes both MongoDB and Meilisearch, as they are already setup for you.
